README.md, before:

# Ollama Search Agent

A modular Python-based search agent that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to provide intelligent search capabilities. The agent uses LangChain for advanced tool usage and agent orchestration, supporting both local Ollama models and OpenAI-compatible APIs.

## 🚀 Features

- **LangChain Integration**: Advanced agent orchestration with ReAct prompting and tool usage
- **Multi-LLM Support**: Seamlessly switch between Ollama (local) and OpenAI-compatible APIs
- **Modular Architecture**: Clean separation between LLM clients, search engines, and core logic
- **Extensible Design**: Easy to add new LLM providers and search engines
- **Environment-based Configuration**: Secure management of API keys and settings
- **Modern Python**: Uses OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ and best practices

## 🏭 Search Engine Abstraction Factory (Implemented)

### Factory Pattern Features
- **Dynamic Engine Discovery**: Automatically discovers all search engines inheriting from `BaseSearch`
- **Dynamic Registration**: Register new engines without modifying existing code
- **Configuration Validation**: Automatically checks engine configuration status
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with clear messages

### Available Search Engines
- **placeholder**: Mock search engine for development and testing
- **custom_google**: Prioritized Google Custom Search API integration (uses `GOOGLE_API_KEY` and `GOOGLE_CSE_ID`)
- **google**: Google Custom Search API integration (fallback if `custom_google` is not available)
- **bing**: Bing Search API integration
- **brave**: Brave Search API integration

### Usage Examples
```bash
# List all available engines and their status
python main.py --list-engines

# Use auto-selected search engine (recommended)
python main.py --search-engine auto "your query"

# Use specific search engine
python main.py --search-engine google "AI advancements"

# Use placeholder for testing
python main.py --search-engine placeholder "test query"
```

### Advanced Search Customization (Planned)
- **Multi-Engine Search**: Support simultaneous searches across multiple search engines
- **Customizable Results**: Configurable minimum result count per search engine
- **Result Aggregation**: Intelligent merging and deduplication of results from multiple sources
- **Performance Optimization**: Parallel search execution with configurable timeouts

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Ollama (optional, for local models)
- API keys for desired services (OpenAI, Google, Bing, etc.)

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd ollama-search-agent
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

**Using pip:**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Using uv (recommended for speed):**
```bash
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Configure Environment

1. Copy the environment template:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Edit `.env` file with your API keys and settings:
```env
# Ollama Configuration
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434
OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3

# OpenAI Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4

# Search Engine API Keys
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key
GOOGLE_CSE_ID=your_custom_search_engine_id
CUSTOM_GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_custom_google_api_key # Note: Currently uses GOOGLE_API_KEY
CUSTOM_GOOGLE_CSE_ID=your_custom_google_cse_id # Note: Currently uses GOOGLE_CSE_ID
BING_API_KEY=your_bing_api_key
BRAVE_API_KEY=your_brave_api_key
```

## 🎯 Usage

### Basic Usage with Ollama (Default)
```bash
python main.py "your search query"
```

### Using OpenAI Models
```bash
python main.py --llm openai "your search query"
```

### Interactive Mode
```bash
python main.py
# Then enter your query when prompted
```

## 🏗️ Project Architecture

```
ollama-search-agent/
├── agent.py                  # Core agent orchestration logic
├── config.py                 # Centralized configuration management
├── main.py                   # CLI entry point and argument parsing
├── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
├── .env.example              # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore               # Git ignore rules
├── README.md                # Project documentation
├── TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md    # Detailed technical documentation
├── langchain_tools/         # LangChain tool implementations (e.g., SearchTool)
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── search_tools.py      # LangChain wrapper for search engines
├── llm_clients/             # LLM provider implementations
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── ollama_client.py     # Ollama local model client
│   └── openai_client.py     # OpenAI-compatible API client
└── search_engines/          # Search engine implementations
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── base_search.py       # Abstract base class for search engines
    ├── placeholder_search.py # Mock search for development
    ├── bing_search.py       # Bing Search API
    ├── brave_search.py      # Brave Search API
    ├── custom_google_search.py # Prioritized Google Custom Search API implementation
    └── google_search.py     # Standard Google Custom Search API implementation
```

## 🔧 Core Components

### SearchAgent (`agent.py`)
- Orchestrates the search workflow: Plan → Search → Synthesize
- Uses LLM to generate search plans from user queries
- Combines search results with original query for final synthesis

### LLM Clients (`llm_clients/`)
- **OllamaClient**: Communicates with local Ollama instance via REST API
- **OpenAIClient**: Uses OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ for OpenAI-compatible APIs
- Both implement consistent `generate(prompt)` interface

### Search Engines (`search_engines/`)
- **BaseSearch**: Abstract class defining search engine interface
- **PlaceholderSearch**: Mock implementation for testing
- **GoogleSearch**: Google Custom Search API integration
- **BingSearch**: Bing Search API integration
- **BraveSearch**: Brave Search API integration

## 🔄 Workflow

1. **Query Analysis**: LLM analyzes user query and generates search plan
2. **Search Execution**: Search engine executes plan and retrieves results
3. **Information Synthesis**: LLM synthesizes search results into coherent answer
4. **Response Delivery**: Final answer returned to user

## 🚀 Extending the Project

### Adding a New LLM Provider
1. Create new client in `llm_clients/` (e.g., `anthropic_client.py`)
2. Implement `generate(prompt)` method
3. Add configuration to `config.py` and `.env.example`
4. Update CLI arguments in `main.py`

### Adding a New Search Engine
1. Create new class in `search_engines/` inheriting from `BaseSearch`
2. Implement `search(query)` method returning structured results
3. Add API configuration to `config.py` and `.env.example`
4. Update CLI arguments in `main.py`

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'openai'**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**OpenAI API Compatibility Issues**
- The project uses OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ with modern API patterns
- Legacy `openai.Completion` calls have been updated to `client.chat.completions.create()`

**Ollama Connection Issues**
- Ensure Ollama is running: `ollama serve`
- Verify OLLAMA_HOST in `.env` matches your Ollama instance

## 📚 Documentation

- **[TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md](TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md)**: Detailed technical architecture and component breakdown
- Code is well-documented with docstrings and type hints

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

[Add your license here]

## ✨ Future Enhancements

- **Intelligent Agent Selection**: Automatically select the best agent based on user input and task complexity.
- **Dynamic LLM Selection**: Allow the agent to dynamically choose the most suitable LLM (Ollama, OpenAI, etc.) based on the query or user preferences.
- **Enhanced Search Engine Prioritization**: Further refine the logic for selecting search engines, potentially incorporating factors like query type, result quality, or user-defined preferences.

Commit message:

feat: Update README and add deep dive summaries for DeepSearch technology in both English and Chinese

README.md, after:

# Simple DeepSearch Agent Project

## Project Goal

This project aims to implement a simple DeepSearch agent, leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to automate and enhance research tasks. The agent will drive multi-step reasoning, large-scale online retrieval, cross-source evidence merging, and structured writing to produce research-grade results with citations.

## Introduction to DeepSearch

Deep Research (deep research/deep search) technology is an application system built around large language models (LLMs), aiming to automate and enhance research tasks. It drives large-scale online retrieval through multi-step reasoning, merges evidence across sources, and performs structured writing, producing research-grade results with citations.

A Deep Research Agent is an AI agent driven by LLMs, integrating dynamic reasoning, adaptive planning, multi-iterative external data retrieval and tool use, and the ability to generate comprehensive analytical reports for information research tasks.

For a more detailed technical deep dive, please refer to [deepsearch_summary_en.md](deepsearch_summary_en.md).

## 🚀 Features

- **LangChain Integration**: Advanced agent orchestration with ReAct prompting and tool usage
- **Multi-LLM Support**: Seamlessly switch between Ollama (local) and OpenAI-compatible APIs
- **Modular Architecture**: Clean separation between LLM clients, search engines, and core logic
- **Extensible Design**: Easy to add new LLM providers and search engines
- **Environment-based Configuration**: Secure management of API keys and settings
- **Modern Python**: Uses OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ and best practices

## 🏭 Search Engine Abstraction Factory (Implemented)

### Factory Pattern Features
- **Dynamic Engine Discovery**: Automatically discovers all search engines inheriting from `BaseSearch`
- **Dynamic Registration**: Register new engines without modifying existing code
- **Configuration Validation**: Automatically checks engine configuration status
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with clear messages

### Available Search Engines
- **placeholder**: Mock search engine for development and testing
- **custom_google**: Prioritized Google Custom Search API integration (uses `GOOGLE_API_KEY` and `GOOGLE_CSE_ID`)
- **google**: Google Custom Search API integration (fallback if `custom_google` is not available)
- **bing**: Bing Search API integration
- **brave**: Brave Search API integration

### Usage Examples
```bash
# List all available engines and their status
python main.py --list-engines

# Use auto-selected search engine (recommended)
python main.py --search-engine auto "your query"

# Use specific search engine
python main.py --search-engine google "AI advancements"

# Use placeholder for testing
python main.py --search-engine placeholder "test query"
```

### Advanced Search Customization (Planned)
- **Multi-Engine Search**: Support simultaneous searches across multiple search engines
- **Customizable Results**: Configurable minimum result count per search engine
- **Result Aggregation**: Intelligent merging and deduplication of results from multiple sources
- **Performance Optimization**: Parallel search execution with configurable timeouts

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Ollama (optional, for local models)
- API keys for desired services (OpenAI, Google, Bing, etc.)

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd ollama-search-agent
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

**Using pip:**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Using uv (recommended for speed):**
```bash
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Configure Environment

1. Copy the environment template:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Edit `.env` file with your API keys and settings:
```env
# Ollama Configuration
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434
OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3

# OpenAI Configuration
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4

# Search Engine API Keys
GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key
GOOGLE_CSE_ID=your_custom_search_engine_id
CUSTOM_GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_custom_google_api_key # Note: Currently uses GOOGLE_API_KEY
CUSTOM_GOOGLE_CSE_ID=your_custom_google_cse_id # Note: Currently uses GOOGLE_CSE_ID
BING_API_KEY=your_bing_api_key
BRAVE_API_KEY=your_brave_api_key
```

## 🎯 Usage

### Basic Usage with Ollama (Default)
```bash
python main.py "your search query"
```

### Using OpenAI Models
```bash
python main.py --llm openai "your search query"
```

### Interactive Mode
```bash
python main.py
# Then enter your query when prompted
```

## 🏗️ Project Architecture

```
ollama-search-agent/
├── agent.py                  # Core agent orchestration logic
├── config.py                 # Centralized configuration management
├── main.py                   # CLI entry point and argument parsing
├── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
├── .env.example              # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore               # Git ignore rules
├── README.md                # Project documentation
├── TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md    # Detailed technical documentation
├── langchain_tools/         # LangChain tool implementations (e.g., SearchTool)
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── search_tools.py      # LangChain wrapper for search engines
├── llm_clients/             # LLM provider implementations
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── ollama_client.py     # Ollama local model client
│   └── openai_client.py     # OpenAI-compatible API client
└── search_engines/          # Search engine implementations
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── base_search.py       # Abstract base class for search engines
    ├── placeholder_search.py # Mock search for development
    ├── bing_search.py       # Bing Search API
    ├── brave_search.py      # Brave Search API
    ├── custom_google_search.py # Prioritized Google Custom Search API implementation
    └── google_search.py     # Standard Google Custom Search API implementation
```

## 🔧 Core Components

### SearchAgent (`agent.py`)
- Orchestrates the search workflow: Plan → Search → Synthesize
- Uses LLM to generate search plans from user queries
- Combines search results with original query for final synthesis

### LLM Clients (`llm_clients/`)
- **OllamaClient**: Communicates with local Ollama instance via REST API
- **OpenAIClient**: Uses OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ for OpenAI-compatible APIs
- Both implement consistent `generate(prompt)` interface

### Search Engines (`search_engines/`)
- **BaseSearch**: Abstract class defining search engine interface
- **PlaceholderSearch**: Mock implementation for testing
- **GoogleSearch**: Google Custom Search API integration
- **BingSearch**: Bing Search API integration
- **BraveSearch**: Brave Search API integration

## 🔄 Workflow

1. **Query Analysis**: LLM analyzes user query and generates search plan
2. **Search Execution**: Search engine executes plan and retrieves results
3. **Information Synthesis**: LLM synthesizes search results into coherent answer
4. **Response Delivery**: Final answer returned to user

## 🚀 Extending the Project

### Adding a New LLM Provider
1. Create new client in `llm_clients/` (e.g., `anthropic_client.py`)
2. Implement `generate(prompt)` method
3. Add configuration to `config.py` and `.env.example`
4. Update CLI arguments in `main.py`

### Adding a New Search Engine
1. Create new class in `search_engines/` inheriting from `BaseSearch`
2. Implement `search(query)` method returning structured results
3. Add API configuration to `config.py` and `.env.example`
4. Update CLI arguments in `main.py`

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'openai'**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**OpenAI API Compatibility Issues**
- The project uses OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ with modern API patterns
- Legacy `openai.Completion` calls have been updated to `client.chat.completions.create()`

**Ollama Connection Issues**
- Ensure Ollama is running: `ollama serve`
- Verify OLLAMA_HOST in `.env` matches your Ollama instance

## 📚 Documentation

- **[TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md](TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md)**: Detailed technical architecture and component breakdown
- Code is well-documented with docstrings and type hints

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

[Add your license here]

## ✨ Future Enhancements

- **Intelligent Agent Selection**: Automatically select the best agent based on user input and task complexity.
- **Dynamic LLM Selection**: Allow the agent to dynamically choose the most suitable LLM (Ollama, OpenAI, etc.) based on the query or user preferences.
- **Enhanced Search Engine Prioritization**: Further refine the logic for selecting search engines, potentially incorporating factors like query type, result quality, or user-defined preferences.
