TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md, before:

# Technical Overview: Ollama Search Agent

## 1. Project Goal & Vision

The primary goal of this project is to create a modular and extensible search agent in Python that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to provide intelligent search capabilities. The agent is designed to:

- **Understand complex user queries** through LLM-powered analysis
- **Formulate effective search strategies** by generating relevant keywords and sub-queries
- **Synthesize information** from multiple search results into coherent, comprehensive answers
- **Support multiple LLM providers** including local Ollama models and cloud-based OpenAI-compatible APIs
- **Integrate with various search engines** through a unified interface

## 2. Core Architecture & Design Principles

The architecture follows modern software engineering principles with clear separation of concerns:

- **Modularity**: Each component has a single responsibility and well-defined interface
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new LLM providers and search engines
- **Configuration Management**: Centralized configuration with environment-based secrets
- **Error Handling**: Graceful degradation and informative error messages
- **Modern Python**: Type hints, docstrings, and contemporary library usage

### Architecture Components

- **Entry Point (`main.py`)**: CLI interface with argument parsing and component orchestration
- **Configuration (`config.py`)**: Centralized settings management with environment variables
- **Agent Core (`agent.py`)**: Search workflow orchestration (Plan → Search → Synthesize)
- **LLM Clients (`llm_clients/`)**: Provider-specific implementations with consistent interface
- **Search Engines (`search_engines/`)**: Search API integrations with abstract base class

## 3. Component Deep Dive

### `main.py` - Command Line Interface
- **Purpose**: User-facing entry point with CLI argument parsing
- **Key Features**:
  - `argparse` for command-line arguments (`--llm`, query input)
  - Dynamic component initialization based on user selection
  - Error handling and user feedback
  - Support for both direct query input and interactive mode

### `agent.py` - Search Agent Core
- **Class**: `SearchAgent`
- **Core Workflow**:
  1. **Plan Generation**: Uses LLM to analyze query and create search strategy
  2. **Search Execution**: Delegates to search engine with generated plan
  3. **Information Synthesis**: Combines query and results for final LLM processing
- **Design Patterns**: Strategy pattern for interchangeable LLM/search components

### `config.py` - Configuration Management
- **Technology**: `python-dotenv` for environment variable loading
- **Structure**:
  - `OLLAMA_CONFIG`: Local Ollama instance settings
  - `OPENAI_API_CONFIG`: OpenAI-compatible API settings
  - `SEARCH_ENGINES`: Search engine API configurations
- **Security**: Sensitive data (API keys) stored in `.env` file, excluded from version control

### LLM Clients (`llm_clients/`)

#### `ollama_client.py`
- **Protocol**: REST API communication with local Ollama instance
- **Endpoint**: `/api/generate` for text generation
- **Dependencies**: `requests` library for HTTP operations
- **Features**: Model selection, streaming support (potential)

#### `openai_client.py` (Updated for v1.0.0+)
- **SDK**: OpenAI Python library v1.0.0+
- **Pattern**: Uses `openai.OpenAI()` client instance
- **Method**: `client.chat.completions.create()` for chat-based completion
- **Compatibility**: Works with any OpenAI-compatible API (OpenRouter, etc.)
- **Response Handling**: Accesses `response.choices[0].message.content`

### Search Engines (`search_engines/`)

#### `base_search.py`
- **Pattern**: Abstract Base Class (ABC) defining interface
- **Method**: Abstract `search(query)` method
- **Purpose**: Ensures consistent interface across all search implementations

#### `factory.py` - Search Engine Factory (New)
- **Pattern**: Factory pattern with dynamic discovery and registration
- **Features**:
  - **Dynamic Discovery**: Automatically discovers all classes inheriting from `BaseSearch`
  - **Dynamic Registration**: Register new engines via `register_engine()` method
  - **Configuration Validation**: Checks required API keys and configuration
  - **Smart Default Selection**: Automatically selects best available engine
  - **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with clear messages
- **Key Methods**:
  - `create(engine_name)`: Create search engine instance
  - `get_default_engine()`: Get best available search engine
  - `list_available_engines()`: List all discovered engines
  - `is_engine_available(engine_name)`: Check if engine is configured and ready

#### Implemented Search Engines
- **`placeholder_search.py`**: Mock implementation for development/testing
- **`google_search.py`**: Google Custom Search API integration
- **`bing_search.py`**: Bing Search API integration  
- **`brave_search.py`**: Brave Search API integration
- **`custom_google_search.py`**: Alternative Google search implementation

## 4. Data Flow & Execution Pipeline

### Detailed Execution Flow

1. **User Input**: `python main.py "query" [--llm openai]`
2. **CLI Processing**: `main.py` parses arguments and validates inputs
3. **Component Initialization**:
   - LLM client instantiated based on `--llm` argument (default: OllamaClient)
   - Search engine initialized (currently PlaceholderSearch)
   - SearchAgent created with configured components
4. **Search Workflow**:
   - **Phase 1: Planning**
     - Query sent to LLM with planning prompt
     - LLM generates search keywords/sub-questions
     - Search plan returned to agent
   - **Phase 2: Search Execution**
     - Plan sent to search engine
     - Search engine executes API calls
     - Structured results returned
   - **Phase 3: Synthesis**
     - Original query + search results combined in synthesis prompt
     - LLM generates final comprehensive answer
     - Answer returned through agent to main.py
5. **Output**: Final synthesized answer printed to console

### Data Structures

**Search Results Format**:
```python
[
    {
        "title": "Result Title",
        "link": "https://example.com",
        "snippet": "Brief description..."
    },
    # ... more results
]
```

**LLM Response Format**:
- Planning phase: String of search keywords/questions
- Synthesis phase: Comprehensive answer string

## 5. API Compatibility & Modernization

### OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ Migration

The project has been updated to use the modern OpenAI Python SDK:

**Before (Legacy)**:
```python
response = openai.Completion.create(
    model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
    prompt=prompt,
    max_tokens=150
)
return response.choices[0].text.strip()
```

**After (Modern)**:
```python
response = self.client.chat.completions.create(
    model=model if model else self.model,
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": prompt}],
    max_tokens=150
)
return response.choices[0].message.content.strip()
```

### Key Changes
- Use `openai.OpenAI()` client instance instead of global configuration
- Switch from `Completion.create()` to `chat.completions.create()`
- Update response access from `.choices[0].text` to `.choices[0].message.content`
- Support for chat-based models and message history

## 6. Search Engine Factory Implementation

### Factory Pattern Design

The Search Engine Factory implements a dynamic discovery and registration system that eliminates hard-coded engine lists and enables seamless extension.

#### Core Design Principles
- **Open/Closed Principle**: New engines can be added without modifying existing code
- **Dynamic Discovery**: Automatically discovers all classes inheriting from `BaseSearch`
- **Configuration-Driven**: Engine availability determined by configuration status
- **Graceful Degradation**: Falls back to placeholder when no engines are available

#### Factory Usage Examples

**Basic Usage**:
```python
from search_engines import create_search_engine, get_default_search_engine

# Create specific engine
engine = create_search_engine("google")

# Get best available engine automatically
engine = get_default_search_engine()

# List all available engines
engines = list_available_engines()
```

**Dynamic Registration**:
```python
from search_engines import register_search_engine

# Register external search engine
register_search_engine(
    "my_engine", 
    "external_module.my_search", 
    "MySearchEngine"
)
```

#### Factory Methods

| Method | Description | Parameters | Returns |
|--------|-------------|------------|---------|
| `create(engine_name)` | Create engine instance | `engine_name: str` | `BaseSearch` instance |
| `get_default_engine()` | Get best available engine | None | `BaseSearch` instance |
| `list_available_engines()` | List discovered engines | None | `List[str]` |
| `is_engine_available(name)` | Check engine readiness | `name: str` | `bool` |
| `register_engine(name, module, class)` | Register new engine | `name, module, class: str` | None |

## 7. Extension Guide

### Adding New LLM Providers

1. **Create Client Class** (`llm_clients/new_provider.py`):
   ```python
   class NewProviderClient:
       def __init__(self):
           # Initialize with config from config.py
           pass
           
       def generate(self, prompt: str) -> str:
           # Implement generation logic
           return generated_text
   ```

2. **Update Configuration**:
   - Add provider config to `config.py`
   - Update `.env.example` with required environment variables

3. **Integrate with CLI**:
   - Add provider option to `main.py` argument parser
   - Update client selection logic

### Adding New Search Engines

1. **Create Search Class** (`search_engines/new_search.py`):
   ```python
   class NewSearch(BaseSearch):
       def search(self, query: str) -> List[Dict]:
           # Implement search logic
           return formatted_results
   ```

2. **Update Configuration**:
   - Add search engine config to `config.py`
   - Update `.env.example` with API keys

3. **Integration**:
   - **Automatic**: Factory will automatically discover the new engine
   - **Manual Registration**: Use `register_search_engine()` for external engines
   - **CLI**: New engine automatically available via `--search-engine` argument

**No Code Changes Required**: The factory pattern eliminates the need to update selection logic when adding new engines.

## 7. Development & Testing

### Development Setup
- Use `.env` for local configuration (excluded via `.gitignore`)
- `placeholder_search.py` for testing without API dependencies
- Comprehensive error handling in all components

### Testing Strategy
- Unit tests for individual components (recommended)
- Integration tests for workflow validation
- Mock implementations for external API testing

## 8. Future Enhancements

### Potential Improvements
- **Streaming Support**: Real-time response generation
- **Caching**: Result caching for performance
- **Multi-modal Search**: Image and document search capabilities
- **Advanced Planning**: Multi-step search strategies
- **Result Evaluation**: Quality assessment of search results
- **Plugin System**: Dynamic component loading

### Scalability Considerations
- Async/await for concurrent operations
- Rate limiting and API quota management
- Distributed search across multiple engines
- Result deduplication and ranking

Commit message:

feat: Update README and Technical Overview to reflect LangChain integration and advanced capabilities

TECHNICAL_OVERVIEW.md, after:

# Technical Overview: Ollama Search Agent

## 1. Project Goal & Vision

The primary goal of this project is to create a modular and extensible search agent in Python that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to provide intelligent search capabilities. The agent now uses LangChain for advanced agent orchestration and tool usage, providing:

- **Advanced Agent Capabilities**: ReAct prompting with tool usage for intelligent search decisions
- **LangChain Integration**: Professional agent framework with proper LLM compatibility
- **Understand complex user queries** through LLM-powered analysis
- **Formulate effective search strategies** by generating relevant keywords and sub-queries
- **Synthesize information** from multiple search results into coherent, comprehensive answers
- **Support multiple LLM providers** including local Ollama models and cloud-based OpenAI-compatible APIs
- **Integrate with various search engines** through a unified interface

## 2. Core Architecture & Design Principles

The architecture follows modern software engineering principles with clear separation of concerns:

- **LangChain Integration**: Professional agent framework with ReAct prompting and tool usage
- **Modularity**: Each component has a single responsibility and well-defined interface
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new LLM providers and search engines
- **Configuration Management**: Centralized configuration with environment-based secrets
- **Error Handling**: Graceful degradation and informative error messages
- **Modern Python**: Type hints, docstrings, and contemporary library usage

### Architecture Components

- **Entry Point (`main.py`)**: CLI interface with argument parsing and component orchestration
- **Configuration (`config.py`)**: Centralized settings management with environment variables
- **Agent Core (`agent.py`)**: LangChain-based agent with tool usage capabilities
- **LangChain Tools (`langchain_tools/`)**: Search tool implementations for LangChain
- **LLM Clients (`llm_clients/`)**: Provider-specific implementations with consistent interface
- **Search Engines (`search_engines/`)**: Search API integrations with abstract base class

## 3. Component Deep Dive

### `main.py` - Command Line Interface
- **Purpose**: User-facing entry point with CLI argument parsing
- **Key Features**:
  - `argparse` for command-line arguments (`--llm`, query input)
  - Dynamic component initialization based on user selection
  - Error handling and user feedback
  - Support for both direct query input and interactive mode

### `agent.py` - Search Agent Core
- **Class**: `SearchAgent`
- **Core Workflow**:
  1. **Plan Generation**: Uses LLM to analyze query and create search strategy
  2. **Search Execution**: Delegates to search engine with generated plan
  3. **Information Synthesis**: Combines query and results for final LLM processing
- **Design Patterns**: Strategy pattern for interchangeable LLM/search components

### `config.py` - Configuration Management
- **Technology**: `python-dotenv` for environment variable loading
- **Structure**:
  - `OLLAMA_CONFIG`: Local Ollama instance settings
  - `OPENAI_API_CONFIG`: OpenAI-compatible API settings
  - `SEARCH_ENGINES`: Search engine API configurations
- **Security**: Sensitive data (API keys) stored in `.env` file, excluded from version control

### LLM Clients (`llm_clients/`)

#### `ollama_client.py`
- **Protocol**: REST API communication with local Ollama instance
- **Endpoint**: `/api/generate` for text generation
- **Dependencies**: `requests` library for HTTP operations
- **Features**: Model selection, streaming support (potential)

#### `openai_client.py` (Updated for v1.0.0+)
- **SDK**: OpenAI Python library v1.0.0+
- **Pattern**: Uses `openai.OpenAI()` client instance
- **Method**: `client.chat.completions.create()` for chat-based completion
- **Compatibility**: Works with any OpenAI-compatible API (OpenRouter, etc.)
- **Response Handling**: Accesses `response.choices[0].message.content`

### Search Engines (`search_engines/`)

#### `base_search.py`
- **Pattern**: Abstract Base Class (ABC) defining interface
- **Method**: Abstract `search(query)` method
- **Purpose**: Ensures consistent interface across all search implementations

#### `factory.py` - Search Engine Factory (New)
- **Pattern**: Factory pattern with dynamic discovery and registration
- **Features**:
  - **Dynamic Discovery**: Automatically discovers all classes inheriting from `BaseSearch`
  - **Dynamic Registration**: Register new engines via `register_engine()` method
  - **Configuration Validation**: Checks required API keys and configuration
  - **Smart Default Selection**: Automatically selects best available engine
  - **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling with clear messages
- **Key Methods**:
  - `create(engine_name)`: Create search engine instance
  - `get_default_engine()`: Get best available search engine
  - `list_available_engines()`: List all discovered engines
  - `is_engine_available(engine_name)`: Check if engine is configured and ready

#### Implemented Search Engines
- **`placeholder_search.py`**: Mock implementation for development/testing
- **`google_search.py`**: Google Custom Search API integration
- **`bing_search.py`**: Bing Search API integration  
- **`brave_search.py`**: Brave Search API integration
- **`custom_google_search.py`**: Alternative Google search implementation

## 4. Data Flow & Execution Pipeline

### Detailed Execution Flow

1. **User Input**: `python main.py "query" [--llm openai]`
2. **CLI Processing**: `main.py` parses arguments and validates inputs
3. **Component Initialization**:
   - LLM client instantiated based on `--llm` argument (default: OllamaClient)
   - Search engine initialized (currently PlaceholderSearch)
   - SearchAgent created with configured components
4. **Search Workflow**:
   - **Phase 1: Planning**
     - Query sent to LLM with planning prompt
     - LLM generates search keywords/sub-questions
     - Search plan returned to agent
   - **Phase 2: Search Execution**
     - Plan sent to search engine
     - Search engine executes API calls
     - Structured results returned
   - **Phase 3: Synthesis**
     - Original query + search results combined in synthesis prompt
     - LLM generates final comprehensive answer
     - Answer returned through agent to main.py
5. **Output**: Final synthesized answer printed to console

### Data Structures

**Search Results Format**:
```python
[
    {
        "title": "Result Title",
        "link": "https://example.com",
        "snippet": "Brief description..."
    },
    # ... more results
]
```

**LLM Response Format**:
- Planning phase: String of search keywords/questions
- Synthesis phase: Comprehensive answer string

## 5. API Compatibility & Modernization

### OpenAI SDK v1.0.0+ Migration

The project has been updated to use the modern OpenAI Python SDK:

**Before (Legacy)**:
```python
response = openai.Completion.create(
    model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
    prompt=prompt,
    max_tokens=150
)
return response.choices[0].text.strip()
```

**After (Modern)**:
```python
response = self.client.chat.completions.create(
    model=model if model else self.model,
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": prompt}],
    max_tokens=150
)
return response.choices[0].message.content.strip()
```

### Key Changes
- Use `openai.OpenAI()` client instance instead of global configuration
- Switch from `Completion.create()` to `chat.completions.create()`
- Update response access from `.choices[0].text` to `.choices[0].message.content`
- Support for chat-based models and message history

## 6. Search Engine Factory Implementation

### Factory Pattern Design

The Search Engine Factory implements a dynamic discovery and registration system that eliminates hard-coded engine lists and enables seamless extension.

#### Core Design Principles
- **Open/Closed Principle**: New engines can be added without modifying existing code
- **Dynamic Discovery**: Automatically discovers all classes inheriting from `BaseSearch`
- **Configuration-Driven**: Engine availability determined by configuration status
- **Graceful Degradation**: Falls back to placeholder when no engines are available

#### Factory Usage Examples

**Basic Usage**:
```python
from search_engines import create_search_engine, get_default_search_engine

# Create specific engine
engine = create_search_engine("google")

# Get best available engine automatically
engine = get_default_search_engine()

# List all available engines
engines = list_available_engines()
```

**Dynamic Registration**:
```python
from search_engines import register_search_engine

# Register external search engine
register_search_engine(
    "my_engine", 
    "external_module.my_search", 
    "MySearchEngine"
)
```

#### Factory Methods

| Method | Description | Parameters | Returns |
|--------|-------------|------------|---------|
| `create(engine_name)` | Create engine instance | `engine_name: str` | `BaseSearch` instance |
| `get_default_engine()` | Get best available engine | None | `BaseSearch` instance |
| `list_available_engines()` | List discovered engines | None | `List[str]` |
| `is_engine_available(name)` | Check engine readiness | `name: str` | `bool` |
| `register_engine(name, module, class)` | Register new engine | `name, module, class: str` | None |

## 7. Extension Guide

### Adding New LLM Providers

1. **Create Client Class** (`llm_clients/new_provider.py`):
   ```python
   class NewProviderClient:
       def __init__(self):
           # Initialize with config from config.py
           pass
           
       def generate(self, prompt: str) -> str:
           # Implement generation logic
           return generated_text
   ```

2. **Update Configuration**:
   - Add provider config to `config.py`
   - Update `.env.example` with required environment variables

3. **Integrate with CLI**:
   - Add provider option to `main.py` argument parser
   - Update client selection logic

### Adding New Search Engines

1. **Create Search Class** (`search_engines/new_search.py`):
   ```python
   class NewSearch(BaseSearch):
       def search(self, query: str) -> List[Dict]:
           # Implement search logic
           return formatted_results
   ```

2. **Update Configuration**:
   - Add search engine config to `config.py`
   - Update `.env.example` with API keys

3. **Integration**:
   - **Automatic**: Factory will automatically discover the new engine
   - **Manual Registration**: Use `register_search_engine()` for external engines
   - **CLI**: New engine automatically available via `--search-engine` argument

**No Code Changes Required**: The factory pattern eliminates the need to update selection logic when adding new engines.

## 7. Development & Testing

### Development Setup
- Use `.env` for local configuration (excluded via `.gitignore`)
- `placeholder_search.py` for testing without API dependencies
- Comprehensive error handling in all components

### Testing Strategy
- Unit tests for individual components (recommended)
- Integration tests for workflow validation
- Mock implementations for external API testing

## 8. Future Enhancements

### Potential Improvements
- **Streaming Support**: Real-time response generation
- **Caching**: Result caching for performance
- **Multi-modal Search**: Image and document search capabilities
- **Advanced Planning**: Multi-step search strategies
- **Result Evaluation**: Quality assessment of search results
- **Plugin System**: Dynamic component loading

### Scalability Considerations
- Async/await for concurrent operations
- Rate limiting and API quota management
- Distributed search across multiple engines
- Result deduplication and ranking
